A classic example of data filtering is refining a given data-set for a specific audience.
Many streaming data stores house what are referred to as raw streams.
These are streams in which all data is present.
For example we might work in a marketing firm and we want to
perform some sentiment analysis on our client's brands.
Given that we want to perform sentiment analysis,
we might pipe in raw social data feeds and example of this might be Twitter.
Even if we limit the data and the raw data feed to tweets that mentioned our clients,
this will still be quite a lot of data.
So we might apply a filter that splits out the raw data
feed for each one of our clients into their own field.
This is a simple example of filtering.
So in this example,
we have apples and oranges and we're summing them through Kafka and then
our stream processor is filtering anything that
isn't an apple out of the output data stream.
So here we have two apples which are sent through after they'd been
filtered and the oranges rejected because it's not the company that we're interested in.
We could in addition also filter those individual company fields a second time to
remove any tweets that don't actually have an opinion about
the brand in question in simply mentioning and passing.
In this example we've taken what was originally a
massive difficult to understand data-set,
remember it's raw data from Twitter and quickly refine
it into smaller relevant chunks for each of our customers.